\."#############################################################################
\."$Id$
\."#############################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2007 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
\."  Copyright (C) 2003-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Mike Haskell <haskell5@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu 
\."  <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."  UCRL-CODE-155697
\."  
\."  This file is part of Mrsh, a collection of remote shell programs
\."  that use munge based authentication rather than reserved ports for
\."  security. For details, see http://www.llnl.gov/linux/.
\."  
\."  Mrsh is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
\."  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Mrsh is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT 
\."  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
\."  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License 
\."  for more details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Mrsh.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\."############################################################################

.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Advertising clause removed per the following letter:
.\"    ftp://ftp.cs.berkeley.edu/pub/4bsd/README.Impt.License.Change
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)rcp.1 6.14 (Berkeley) 7/27/91
.\"     $Id$
.\"
.Dd August 26, 2003
.Dt MRCP 1
.Os "Linux Mrsh"
.Sh NAME
.Nm mrcp
.Nd munge authenticated remote file copy
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm mrcp
.Op Fl p
.Ar file1 file2
.Nm mrcp
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl r
.Ar file ...
.Ar directory
.Nm mrcp
.Fl V
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Mrcp
is a modification of the
.Nm rcp
command that uses munge authentication instead of reserved ports
for security.  Just like
.Nm rcp,
.Nm mrcp
copies files between machines.  Each
.Ar file
or
.Ar directory
argument is either a remote file name of the
form ``rname@rhost:path'', or a local file name (containing no `:' characters,
or a `/' before any `:'s).
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl r
If any of the source files are directories,
.Nm mrcp
copies each subtree rooted at that name; in this case
the destination must be a directory.
.It Fl p
The
.Fl p
option causes
.Nm mrcp
to attempt to preserve (duplicate) in its copies the modification
times and modes of the source files, ignoring the
.Ar umask  .
By default, the mode and owner of
.Ar file2
are preserved if it already existed; otherwise the mode of the source file
modified by the
.Xr umask  2
on the destination host is used.
.It Fl V
The
.Fl V
option outputs the package and protocol version.
.El
.Pp
If
.Ar path
is not a full path name, it is interpreted relative to
the login directory of the specified user
.Ar ruser
on
.Ar rhost  ,
or your current user name if no other remote user name is specified.
A
.Ar path
on a remote host may be quoted (using \e, ", or \(aa)
so that the metacharacters are interpreted remotely.
.Pp
.Nm Mrcp
does not prompt for passwords; it performs remote execution
via
.Xr mrsh  1  ,
and requires the same authorization.
.Pp
.Nm Mrcp
handles third party copies, where neither source nor target files
are on the current machine.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cp 1 ,
.Xr ftp 1 ,
.Xr mrsh 1 ,
.Xr mrlogin 1
.Sh BUGS
Doesn't detect all cases where the target of a copy might
be a file in cases where only a directory should be legal.
.Pp
Is confused by any output generated by commands in a
.Pa \&.login ,
.Pa \&.profile ,
or
.Pa \&.cshrc
file on the remote host.
.Pp
The destination user and hostname may have to be specified as
``rhost.rname'' when the destination machine is running the
.Bx 4.2
version of
.Nm mrcp  .
