.\" Copyright (c) 1996 Michael Sadd (sadd@cornell.edu)
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.TH REXEC 1 "August 15, 1999"
.SH NAME
rexec -- remote execution client for an exec server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rexec 
[  
.B \-a \-c \-d \-h \-n \-s
] [--] host command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Rexec
calls the 
.B rexec(3)
routine to act as a client for the remote host's
.B rexecd(8)
server.  
.PP
It asks that ``command'' be run on the host computer,
using username/password authentication. See 
.B rexec(3)
and
.B rexecd(8)
for details of the protocol.
.SH OPTIONS
.B Rexec
accepts the following options:
.\"
.LP
\fB\-a\fP
.IP
Do not set up an auxiliary channel for standard error from command;
the remote standard error and output are then both returned on the
local standard output.  By default, 
.B rexec
asks that a separate channel be set up for diagnostic output
from the remote command.
.\"
.LP
\fB\-c\fP
.IP
Do not close remote standard input when local standard input closes.
Normally the standard input to the remote command is closed when
the local standard input is closed.
.\"
.LP
\fB\-d\fP
.IP
Turn on debugging information. In particular the command sent to the
remote host will be echoed.
.\"
.LP
\fB\-h\fP
.IP
Print a usage message.
.\"
.LP
\fB\-n\fP
.IP
Explicitly prompt for name and password.  Otherwise,
$HOME/.netrc will be scanned for login information.
.\"
.LP
\fB\-s\fP
.IP
Do not echo signals received by the rexec onto the remote
process.  Normally, signals which can be trapped are passed
on to the remote process; then, when you type CNTRL-C, the remote
process terminates as well.
.\"
.LP
\fB\--\fP
.IP
Signals end of options to
.B rexec
to allow option switches in ``command.''
.PP
The only option that is very useful is -n; 
even then, if you have not
set up a password in $HOME/.netrc, you should still be prompted.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
rexec othermachine -- cat ">remote_file; date" <local_file
.PP
will send local_file to the othermachine as remote_file.

.SH BUGS
When a signal is received locally, the signal is passed to the remote
command using
blocking i/o.  Even though it is only one byte, this may result
in delay in teminating the local command if communications are slow.
Also, the signal remains raised in the local rexec procedure, so
typically the remote command cannot ask for further user input
after the signal is sent.
.PP
It is annoying to have to use the ``--'' flag to include options in
the remote command without quoting them.  This is because the GNU
getopt(3) routine is being called.  This behavior may be corrected 
by setting the POSIXLY_CORRECT environtmental variable.
.PP
Please send bug reports or system incompatibilities to the author.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rexec(3), rexecd(8)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Michael Sadd 
.br
sadd@msc.cornell.edu
.br
http://www.msc.cornell.edu/~sadd/
