\."#############################################################################
\."$Id$
\."#############################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2003 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Mike Haskell <haskell5@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu 
\."  <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."  UCRL-CODE-155697
\."  
\."  This file is part of Mrsh, a collection of remote shell programs
\."  that use munge based authentication rather than reserved ports for
\."  security. For details, see http://www.llnl.gov/linux/.
\."  
\."  Mrsh is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
\."  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Mrsh is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT 
\."  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
\."  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License 
\."  for more details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Mrsh; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
\."  59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
\."############################################################################

.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1989, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\" 5. This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\"    under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
.\"    by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
.\"    License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" 6. This is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\"    WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"    GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 7. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License;
.\"    if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple
.\"    Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)mrlogind.8	6.12 (Berkeley) 3/16/91
.\"	$Id$
.\"
.Dd August 26, 2003
.Dt MRLOGIND 8
.Os "Linux Mrsh"
.Sh NAME
.Nm mrlogind
.Nd munge authenticated remote login server
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm mrlogind
.Op Fl ahlLn
.Nm mrlogind
.Fl V
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Mrlogind
is the server for the 
.Xr mrlogin 1
program.  It is a modification of the
.Xr rlogind
server and uses munge authentication rather than
reserved ports for security.
.Pp
Options supported by
.Nm mrlogind :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
Ask hostname for verification.
.It Fl n
Disable keep-alive messages.
.It Fl V
Output package and protocol version.
.El
.Pp
.Nm Mrlogind
listens for service requests at the port indicated in
the ``mlogin'' service specification; see
.Xr services 5 .
.Pp
Transport-level keepalive messages are enabled unless the
.Fl n
option is present.
The use of keepalive messages allows sessions to be timed out
if the client crashes or becomes unreachable.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
All errors are logged via the syslog (3) library.  Administrators
should check the log files for details regarding errors.  Error
messages send to the user are intentionally ambiguous, so that 
details about state information cannot be interpreted.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mrlogin 1 , 
.Xr mrshd 8
