\."#############################################################################
\."$Id$
\."#############################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2007 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
\."  Copyright (C) 2003-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Mike Haskell <haskell5@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu 
\."  <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."  UCRL-CODE-155697
\."  
\."  This file is part of Mrsh, a collection of remote shell programs
\."  that use munge based authentication rather than reserved ports for
\."  security. For details, see http://www.llnl.gov/linux/.
\."  
\."  Mrsh is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
\."  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Mrsh is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT 
\."  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
\."  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License 
\."  for more details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Mrsh.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
\."############################################################################

.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Advertising clause removed per the following letter:
.\"    ftp://ftp.cs.berkeley.edu/pub/4bsd/README.Impt.License.Change
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)rlogin.1      6.19 (Berkeley) 7/27/91
.\"     $Id$
.\"
.Dd August 26, 2003
.Dt MRLOGIN 1
.Os "Linux Mrsh"
.Sh NAME
.Nm mrlogin
.Nd munge authenticated remote login
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm mrlogin
.Op Fl 8ELd
.Op Fl e Ar char
.Op Fl l Ar username
.Ar host
.Nm mrlogin
.Fl V
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Mrlogin
is a modification of the
.Nm rlogin
command that uses munge authentication instead of reserved
ports for security.  Just like
.Nm rlogin,
.Nm mrlogin
starts a terminal session on a remote host
.Ar host  .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl 8
The
.Fl 8
option allows an eight-bit input data path at all times; otherwise
parity bits are stripped except when the remote side's stop and start
characters are other than
^S/^Q .
.It Fl E
The
.Fl E
option stops any character from being recognized as an escape character.
When used with the
.Fl 8
option, this provides a completely transparent connection.
.It Fl L
The
.Fl L
option allows the mrlogin session to be run in ``litout'' (see
.Xr tty 4 )
mode.
.It Fl d
The
.Fl d
option turns on socket debugging (see
.Xr setsockopt 2 )
on the TCP sockets used for communication with the remote host.
.It Fl e
The
.Fl e
option allows user specification of the escape character, which is
``~'' by default.
This specification may be as a literal character, or as an octal
value in the form \ennn.
.It Fl V
The 
.Fl V
option outputs the package and protocol version.
.El
.Pp
A line of the form ``<escape char>.'' disconnects from the remote host.
Similarly, the line ``<escape char>^Z'' will suspend the
.Nm mrlogin
session, and ``<escape char><delayed-suspend char>'' suspends the
send portion of the mrlogin, but allows output from the remote system.
By default, the tilde (``~'') character is the escape character, and
normally control-Y (``^Y'') is the delayed-suspend character.
.Pp
All echoing takes place at the remote site, so that (except for delays)
the
.Nm mrlogin
is transparent.
Flow control via ^S/^Q and flushing of input and output on interrupts
are handled properly.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variable is utilized by
.Nm mrlogin :
.Bl -tag -width TERM
.It Ev TERM
Determines the user's terminal type.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mrsh 1
.Sh BUGS
More of the environment should be propagated.
