\."#############################################################################
\."$Id$
\."#############################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2003 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Mike Haskell <haskell5@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu 
\."  <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."  UCRL-CODE-155697
\."  
\."  This file is part of Mrsh, a collection of remote shell programs
\."  that use munge based authentication rather than reserved ports for
\."  security. For details, see http://www.llnl.gov/linux/.
\."  
\."  Mrsh is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
\."  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Mrsh is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT 
\."  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
\."  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License 
\."  for more details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Mrsh; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
\."  59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
\."############################################################################

.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)rsh.1 6.10 (Berkeley) 7/24/91
.\"     $Id$
.\"
.Dd August 26, 2003
.Dt MRSH 1
.Os "Linux Mrsh"
.Sh NAME
.Nm mrsh
.Nd munge authenticated remote shell
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm mrsh
.Op Fl dn
.Op Fl l Ar username
.Ar host
.Op command
.Nm mrsh
.Fl V
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Mrsh
is a modification of the 
.Nm rsh
command that uses munge authentication instead of reserved
ports for security.  Just like
.Nm rsh,
.Nm mrsh
executes
.Ar command
on
.Ar host  .
.Pp
.Nm Mrsh
copies its standard input to the remote command, the standard
output of the remote command to its standard output, and the
standard error of the remote command to its standard error.
Interrupt, quit and terminate signals are propagated to the remote
command;
.Nm mrsh
normally terminates when the remote command does.
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl d
The
.Fl d
option turns on socket debugging (using
.Xr setsockopt  2  )
on the
.Tn TCP
sockets used for communication with the remote host.
.It Fl l
By default, the remote username is the same as the local username.
The
.Fl l
option allows the remote name to be specified.
.It Fl n
The
.Fl n
option redirects input from the special device
.Pa /dev/null
(see the
.Sx BUGS
section of this manual page).
.It Fl V
The
.Fl V
option outputs the package and protocol version.
.El
.Pp
If no
.Ar command
is specified, you will be logged in on the remote host using
.Xr mrlogin  1  .
.Pp
Shell metacharacters which are not quoted are interpreted on local machine,
while quoted metacharacters are interpreted on the remote machine.
For example, the command
.Pp
.Dl mrsh otherhost cat remotefile >> localfile
.Pp
appends the remote file
.Ar remotefile
to the local file
.Ar localfile ,
while
.Pp
.Dl mrsh otherhost cat remotefile \&">>\&" other_remotefile
.Pp
appends
.Ar remotefile
to
.Ar other_remotefile .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mrlogin 1
.Sh BUGS
If you are using
.Xr csh  1
and put a
.Nm mrsh
in the background without redirecting its input away from the terminal,
it will block even if no reads are posted by the remote command.
If no input is desired you should redirect the input of
.Nm mrsh
to
.Pa /dev/null
using the
.Fl n
option.
.Pp
You cannot run an interactive command
(like
.Xr rogue  6
or
.Xr vi  1  )
using
.Nm mrsh  ;
use
.Xr mrlogin  1
instead.
.Pp
Stop signals stop the local
.Nm mrsh
process only; this is arguably wrong, but currently hard to fix for reasons
too complicated to explain here.
